# handy_api

HandyAPI - the Ruby gem for the Handy API v2.0.0

API to interact with the 'TheHandy'. <p> <b>IMPORTANT</b>: This API is compatible with devices running firmware version 3 (v3) only. See note below on how to deal with firmware version 2 (v2) devices with this API. <p> <h3>Join the community</h3> Send us a mail or add us on discord for a more technical chat - **Handy#8756**<br> Follow us on Reddit for updates and announcements: https://www.reddit.com/r/theHandy/ <p> <h3>Server selection</h3> When using the API make sure you connect to the server environment that the device you are trying to interact with is connected to.<br> For most users this will be the production environment API server: <b>https://www.handyfeeling.com/api/handy/v2</b><br> If you have been given special access to firmware that connects to the staging environment, you should use the staging environment API server: <b>https://staging.handyfeeling.com/api/handy/v2</b><br> <p> <h3>Handling firmware v2 devices</h3> Users with firmware v2 devices are required to update their device to firmware v3 before the device can be fully used with this API.<br> To ease this process, two of the endpoints in this API can be used with firmware v2 devices:<br> <ul> <li><code>/connected</code> - Check online status of a device.</li> <li><code>/info</code> - Get general information about the device.</li> </ul> All other endpoints will always return a 'Machine not connected' error if you try to use them with a firmware v2 device.<br><br> For v2 devices it's important to handle the fwStatus returned from the <code>/info</code> endpoint properly.<br> v2 devices will always have fwStatus = UPDATE_REQUIRED(2). See <code>/info</code> documentation for more details.<br><br> When using the API with a device, you should always start by verifying that the device have a firmware that is compatible with the API you are using in your service.<br> An example flow could look like this: <ol> <li>Check if device is conncted with <code>/connected</code></li> <li>Check device firmware status with <code>/info</code></li> <li>If a firmware update is required, forward the user to <a href=\"https://www.handfyfeeling.com\">https://www.handfyfeeling.com</a> so they can easily update the device firmware.</li> <li>Continue your service when the firmware status returned in <code>/info</code> is UP_TO_DATE(0).</li> </ol> <p> <h3>Mode specific operations</h3> Operations in <b>BASE</b>, <b>SLIDE</b>, <b>TIMESYNC</b> and <b>HSTP</b> are mode independent and available at any time.<br> Other operations are only available in a specific mode (eg. <b>HAMP</b>, <b>HDSP</b>, <b>HSSP</b>).<br> To access these operations, the device have to first be put in the specific mode (see <code>/mode</code>).<br> If you execute an operation not available in the current mode of the device, you will receive a 'No such method' error response. <!--See live samples of use cases here: 'https://www.handyfeeling.com/api/handy/v2/demo/ -->

This SDK is automatically generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project:

- API version: 2.0.0-beta-3
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.RubyClientCodegen

## Installation

### Build a gem

To build the Ruby code into a gem:

```shell
gem build handy_api.gemspec
```

Then either install the gem locally:

```shell
gem install ./handy_api-1.0.0.gem
```

(for development, run `gem install --dev ./handy_api-1.0.0.gem` to install the development dependencies)

or publish the gem to a gem hosting service, e.g. [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/).

Finally add this to the Gemfile:

    gem 'handy_api', '~> 1.0.0'

### Install from Git

If the Ruby gem is hosted at a git repository: https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID, then add the following in the Gemfile:

    gem 'handy_api', :git => 'https://github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID.git'

### Include the Ruby code directly

Include the Ruby code directly using `-I` as follows:

```shell
ruby -Ilib script.rb
```

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation](#installation) procedure and then run the following code:

```ruby
# Load the gem
require 'handy_api'

api_instance = HandyAPI::BASEApi.new
x_connection_key = 'x_connection_key_example' # String | Device connection key.

begin
  #Get extended device information.
  result = api_instance.get_info(x_connection_key)
  p result
rescue HandyAPI::ApiError => e
  puts "Exception when calling BASEApi->get_info: #{e}"
end

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://www.handyfeeling.com/api/handy/v2*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*HandyAPI::BASEApi* | [**get_info**](docs/BASEApi.md#get_info) | **GET** /info | Get extended device information.
*HandyAPI::BASEApi* | [**get_mode**](docs/BASEApi.md#get_mode) | **GET** /mode | Get the current mode of the device.
*HandyAPI::BASEApi* | [**get_settings**](docs/BASEApi.md#get_settings) | **GET** /settings | Extended device settings.
*HandyAPI::BASEApi* | [**get_status**](docs/BASEApi.md#get_status) | **GET** /status | Get the device status.
*HandyAPI::BASEApi* | [**is_connected**](docs/BASEApi.md#is_connected) | **GET** /connected | Check device connectivity.
*HandyAPI::BASEApi* | [**set_mode**](docs/BASEApi.md#set_mode) | **PUT** /mode | Set the current mode of the device.
*HandyAPI::HAMPApi* | [**get_hamp_state**](docs/HAMPApi.md#get_hamp_state) | **GET** /hamp/state | Get the HAMP state of the device.
*HandyAPI::HAMPApi* | [**get_hamp_velocity_percent**](docs/HAMPApi.md#get_hamp_velocity_percent) | **GET** /hamp/velocity | Get the HAMP velocity setting of the device in percent.
*HandyAPI::HAMPApi* | [**hamp_stop**](docs/HAMPApi.md#hamp_stop) | **PUT** /hamp/stop | Stop alternating motion.
*HandyAPI::HAMPApi* | [**set_hamp_velocity_percent**](docs/HAMPApi.md#set_hamp_velocity_percent) | **PUT** /hamp/velocity | Set the HAMP velocity setting of the device in percent.
*HandyAPI::HAMPApi* | [**start**](docs/HAMPApi.md#start) | **PUT** /hamp/start | Start alternating motion.
*HandyAPI::HDSPApi* | [**next_position_abs_in_time**](docs/HDSPApi.md#next_position_abs_in_time) | **PUT** /hdsp/xat | Sets the next absolute position (xa) of the device, and the time (t) the device should use to reach the position.
*HandyAPI::HDSPApi* | [**next_position_percent_in_time**](docs/HDSPApi.md#next_position_percent_in_time) | **PUT** /hdsp/xpt | Sets the next percent position (xp) of the device, and the time (t) the device should use to reach the position.
*HandyAPI::HDSPApi* | [**next_position_percent_velocity_absolute**](docs/HDSPApi.md#next_position_percent_velocity_absolute) | **PUT** /hdsp/xpva | Sets the next percent position (xp) of the device, and the absolute velocity (va) the device should use to reach the position.
*HandyAPI::HDSPApi* | [**next_position_percent_velocity_percent**](docs/HDSPApi.md#next_position_percent_velocity_percent) | **PUT** /hdsp/xpvp | Sets the next percent position (xp) of the device, and the percent velocity (vp) the device should use to reach the position.
*HandyAPI::HDSPApi* | [**next_postion_abs_velocity_abs**](docs/HDSPApi.md#next_postion_abs_velocity_abs) | **PUT** /hdsp/xava | Sets the next absolute position (xa) of the device, and the absolute velocity (va) the device should use to reach the position.
*HandyAPI::HSSPApi* | [**get_hssp_state**](docs/HSSPApi.md#get_hssp_state) | **GET** /hssp/state | Get the HSSP state of the device.
*HandyAPI::HSSPApi* | [**get_loop_setting**](docs/HSSPApi.md#get_loop_setting) | **GET** /hssp/loop | Get the HSSP loop setting of the device. Only available in firmware >= 3.2.x
*HandyAPI::HSSPApi* | [**hssp_stop**](docs/HSSPApi.md#hssp_stop) | **PUT** /hssp/stop | Stop script playing.
*HandyAPI::HSSPApi* | [**play**](docs/HSSPApi.md#play) | **PUT** /hssp/play | Start script playing.
*HandyAPI::HSSPApi* | [**set_loop_setting**](docs/HSSPApi.md#set_loop_setting) | **PUT** /hssp/loop | Set the HSSP loop setting of the device. Only available in firmware >= 3.2.x
*HandyAPI::HSSPApi* | [**setup**](docs/HSSPApi.md#setup) | **PUT** /hssp/setup | Setup script synchronization.
*HandyAPI::HSTPApi* | [**get_device_time**](docs/HSTPApi.md#get_device_time) | **GET** /hstp/time | Get the current time of the device.
*HandyAPI::HSTPApi* | [**get_offset**](docs/HSTPApi.md#get_offset) | **GET** /hstp/offset | Get the HSTP offset of the device.
*HandyAPI::HSTPApi* | [**get_round_trip_delay**](docs/HSTPApi.md#get_round_trip_delay) | **GET** /hstp/rtd | Get the round-trip-delay-time (rtd) between the device and the server.
*HandyAPI::HSTPApi* | [**set_offset**](docs/HSTPApi.md#set_offset) | **PUT** /hstp/offset | Set the HSTP offset of the device.
*HandyAPI::HSTPApi* | [**sync**](docs/HSTPApi.md#sync) | **GET** /hstp/sync | Syncronize the connected device with the server clock.
*HandyAPI::MAINTENANCEApi* | [**get_update_status**](docs/MAINTENANCEApi.md#get_update_status) | **GET** /maintenance/update/status | Get the device update status.
*HandyAPI::MAINTENANCEApi* | [**restart**](docs/MAINTENANCEApi.md#restart) | **PUT** /maintenance/restart | Restart the device.
*HandyAPI::MAINTENANCEApi* | [**update_perform_fw**](docs/MAINTENANCEApi.md#update_perform_fw) | **PUT** /maintenance/update/perform | Perform firmware update.
*HandyAPI::OTAApi* | [**latest**](docs/OTAApi.md#latest) | **GET** /ota/latest | Get the latest available firmware available for the provided model and branch.
*HandyAPI::SLIDEApi* | [**get_position_abs**](docs/SLIDEApi.md#get_position_abs) | **GET** /slide/position/absolute | Get the current slide position
*HandyAPI::SLIDEApi* | [**get_slide**](docs/SLIDEApi.md#get_slide) | **GET** /slide | Get the slide settings.
*HandyAPI::SLIDEApi* | [**set_slide**](docs/SLIDEApi.md#set_slide) | **PUT** /slide | Set slide settings.
*HandyAPI::TIMESYNCApi* | [**get_server_time**](docs/TIMESYNCApi.md#get_server_time) | **GET** /servertime | Get current server time.


## Documentation for Models

 - [HandyAPI::BASEModeErrors](docs/BASEModeErrors.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Branch](docs/Branch.md)
 - [HandyAPI::ConnectedResponse](docs/ConnectedResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::ErrorResponseError](docs/ErrorResponseError.md)
 - [HandyAPI::ErrorResponseErrorCode](docs/ErrorResponseErrorCode.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Events](docs/Events.md)
 - [HandyAPI::FirmwareStatus](docs/FirmwareStatus.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GenericError](docs/GenericError.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GenericResult](docs/GenericResult.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GenericResultResponse](docs/GenericResultResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetDeviceTime200Response](docs/GetDeviceTime200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetDeviceTime200ResponseOneOf](docs/GetDeviceTime200ResponseOneOf.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetHAMPState200Response](docs/GetHAMPState200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetHAMPState200ResponseOneOf](docs/GetHAMPState200ResponseOneOf.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetHAMPVelocityPercent200Response](docs/GetHAMPVelocityPercent200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetHSSPState200Response](docs/GetHSSPState200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetHSSPState200ResponseOneOf](docs/GetHSSPState200ResponseOneOf.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetInfo200Response](docs/GetInfo200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetLoopSetting200Response](docs/GetLoopSetting200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetMode200Response](docs/GetMode200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetMode200ResponseOneOf](docs/GetMode200ResponseOneOf.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetOffset200Response](docs/GetOffset200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetPositionAbs200Response](docs/GetPositionAbs200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetRoundTripDelay200Response](docs/GetRoundTripDelay200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetRoundTripDelay200ResponseOneOf](docs/GetRoundTripDelay200ResponseOneOf.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetSettings200Response](docs/GetSettings200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetSlide200Response](docs/GetSlide200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetStatus200Response](docs/GetStatus200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::GetUpdateStatus200Response](docs/GetUpdateStatus200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HAMPModeErrors](docs/HAMPModeErrors.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HAMPResponse](docs/HAMPResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HAMPStartResponse](docs/HAMPStartResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HAMPState](docs/HAMPState.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HAMPStopResponse](docs/HAMPStopResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HAMPVelocityPercent](docs/HAMPVelocityPercent.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HAMPVelocityPercentResponse](docs/HAMPVelocityPercentResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HDSPModeErrors](docs/HDSPModeErrors.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HDSPRequest](docs/HDSPRequest.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HDSPResponse](docs/HDSPResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HDSPResult](docs/HDSPResult.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HDSPTimeRequest](docs/HDSPTimeRequest.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HSSPModeErrors](docs/HSSPModeErrors.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HSSPPlay](docs/HSSPPlay.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HSSPPlayResponse](docs/HSSPPlayResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HSSPPlayResult](docs/HSSPPlayResult.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HSSPResponse](docs/HSSPResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HSSPSetupResult](docs/HSSPSetupResult.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HSSPState](docs/HSSPState.md)
 - [HandyAPI::HampStop200Response](docs/HampStop200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::InfoResponse](docs/InfoResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::LoopSettingResponse](docs/LoopSettingResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::LoopSettingUpdate](docs/LoopSettingUpdate.md)
 - [HandyAPI::MAINTENANCEModeErrors](docs/MAINTENANCEModeErrors.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Mode](docs/Mode.md)
 - [HandyAPI::ModeUpdate](docs/ModeUpdate.md)
 - [HandyAPI::ModeUpdateResponse](docs/ModeUpdateResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Model](docs/Model.md)
 - [HandyAPI::NextPostionAbsVelocityAbs200Response](docs/NextPostionAbsVelocityAbs200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::NextXAT](docs/NextXAT.md)
 - [HandyAPI::NextXAVA](docs/NextXAVA.md)
 - [HandyAPI::NextXPT](docs/NextXPT.md)
 - [HandyAPI::NextXPVA](docs/NextXPVA.md)
 - [HandyAPI::NextXPVP](docs/NextXPVP.md)
 - [HandyAPI::OffsetResponse](docs/OffsetResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::OffsetUpdate](docs/OffsetUpdate.md)
 - [HandyAPI::OtaLatest](docs/OtaLatest.md)
 - [HandyAPI::OtaLatestResponse](docs/OtaLatestResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Play200Response](docs/Play200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::PositionAbsoluteResponse](docs/PositionAbsoluteResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::RPCResult](docs/RPCResult.md)
 - [HandyAPI::RestartRequest](docs/RestartRequest.md)
 - [HandyAPI::ServerTimeResponse](docs/ServerTimeResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SetHAMPVelocityPercent200Response](docs/SetHAMPVelocityPercent200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SetMode200Response](docs/SetMode200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SetSlide200Response](docs/SetSlide200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SettingsResponse](docs/SettingsResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Setup](docs/Setup.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Setup200Response](docs/Setup200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Setup200ResponseOneOf](docs/Setup200ResponseOneOf.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SlideResponse](docs/SlideResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SlideResult](docs/SlideResult.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SlideResultResponse](docs/SlideResultResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SlideSettings](docs/SlideSettings.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SlideSettingsAnyOf](docs/SlideSettingsAnyOf.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SlideSettingsAnyOf1](docs/SlideSettingsAnyOf1.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SlideSettingsAnyOf2](docs/SlideSettingsAnyOf2.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SlideUpdateResponse](docs/SlideUpdateResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SliderMaxResponse](docs/SliderMaxResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SliderMinResponse](docs/SliderMinResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Start200Response](docs/Start200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::StateResult](docs/StateResult.md)
 - [HandyAPI::StatusResponse](docs/StatusResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::StatusResponseState](docs/StatusResponseState.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Sync200Response](docs/Sync200Response.md)
 - [HandyAPI::Sync200ResponseOneOf](docs/Sync200ResponseOneOf.md)
 - [HandyAPI::SyncResponse](docs/SyncResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::UpdatePerform](docs/UpdatePerform.md)
 - [HandyAPI::UpdateStatusResponse](docs/UpdateStatusResponse.md)
 - [HandyAPI::WebHook](docs/WebHook.md)
 - [HandyAPI::WebHookOpts](docs/WebHookOpts.md)


## Documentation for Authorization


Authentication schemes defined for the API:
### BearerAuth

- **Type**: Bearer authentication (unique)

